---
title: Role Reversal
subtitle: Day 0
date: 2021-06-17
other_url: https://archiveofourown.org/works/31992673/chapters/79241950#workskin
---
"Scout?" Tom asked, looking over at the back door confused. He'd sat up on the couch when he heard the back door open, and then blinked when he saw his dog walking through the door on... two legs? "That you, boy?"

What happened next left Tom wondering if he wasn't dreaming. "Yeah, it's me\!" Scout said, running over to the couch, his tail wagging. "I got three wishes\!"

"Did you just talk?" the old man asked. He pinched himself to make sure it would still hurt like it should if he were awake. Surprisingly, it did.

"Yes\!" Scout replied, quite excited by his new abilities. "It's part of what I got from the lamp\!"

"You used all three wishes?" Tom asked, sitting up to get a good look at his dog. "Might need 'em to deal with having a walking, talking dog running around."

"I *think* I got that," Scout said. "My first wish was to know what you know. I was thinking that would make picking the next ones easier. And it did\!

"Then I found out you weren't doing too great, with your eyes and all the other stuff. So, I decided that, since you'd been taking really good care of me for most of my life, it's my turn. My second wish was that I could take care of you like you'd taken care of me."

Tom took this in. "So that's when you got the whole walking and talking thing, yeah? And I'd say I'm fine, but you've heard me talk about my troubles enough."

"Yeah," Scout said, sighing. "It sucks. You don't deserve this. And before, I had a bit of an idea of what was up, but I was also really sad we didn't play as much anymore."

Tom reached up to give Scout a hug. "Yep. Sorry, buddy."

Scout leaned down to accept the hug. "It's OK. It'll be better."

"Not if I have to deal with the news swarming us or us getting carted off to a secret lab somewhere." Tom muttered.

"Oh yeah, that's the third wish–people won't know we've switched places unless I want them to."

"Good," Tom replied, relieved. When the rest of Scout's sentence had made it through his brain, however, he frowned, confused. "Wait, what's this about us switching places?"

"Oh yeah, right\!" Scout said. "So everyone doesn't notice, I can become people-shaped, and I can make you more dog-shaped\!"

"Make me more dog-shaped?"

"Yeah\! Makes it easier to take care of you, too\! And I can change you back whenever we need that\! If we have the shapes right, when people look, you'll look like I used to and I'll look like you used to\!'

Tom was extremely confused by now." I'm not dreaming, right?" he asked.

"I hope not\!" Scout said. "I don't want this to be a dream. I love you, and now I can help you more, like I've wanted to for a whole now."

Tom looked down at his body. "I don't look any different, " he commented.

"Well, I haven't started yet."

"Fair enough."

Tom gazed up at his dog. "So, I'm gonna be your pet now? You gonna teach me to sit, stay, and shake?"

Scout laughed. "You don't already know those?" Then, more seriously, he said, "I'll make sure you still can get to your books, shows, and puzzles, too. I don't want you getting bored, and I know a chew toy won't be enough like it used to be for me.

"Oh, and I can read to you–we'll both like it\! I can't wait for the new *Dresden Files* too, now that I know what it is\!"

"Now that I'm thinking about it, sure does sound better than a nursing home," Tom said. "But it'll be weird, and I don't really know what I'm getting into. Even though we share a taste in books."

"I don't either," Scout said. "We'll see, and if you really don't like what I've planned, we'll do something else. This isn't some revenge plot."

"Let's give me, uh, being your pet a try, then." Tom said. "And we'll stop if I really don't want it. Deal?" Tom held out a hand.

"Deal\!" Scout agreed, shaking it.

"So, what now?"

"I think I just *want* you to change and–"

Tom was suddenly rather different. His hands thickened up so that he could stand on them as front paws, though he still had a bit of use of his fingers. His wrists gained the ability to lock up and only move like ankles if he wanted them to, making walking around in all fours safer for the new pet. His knees also thickened up, gaining a layer of protective padding. His hips shifted, helping him maintain a dog-like posture; standing on two legs was going to be difficult for him, though that wasn't obvious to him because he was lying on his back. His arms and legs grew shorter, letting him stay lower to the ground and match the approximate height of his former pet dog. He felt a sense of warmth settling around him, as if he'd gotten some fur (though he didn't feel any new hair, much to his disappointment)

Tom's neck became longer and more flexible, letting him bend down to get things off the ground. His tongue grew longer, and it gained the control needed to lap up liquids and take in food without hands. (His jaw also adjusted to accommodate the new tongue and to let him use a water bowl without needing to put his nose in it.) He was, overall, quite set up to be a pet human.

Tom wiggled his new body and tested it out. "I might get used to this," he said. "But my clothes don't fit anymore, so… mind if I take these off?"

"Not a problem," Scout said. He chuckled. "And I'd even say you should\! You ever heard of a pet who wears pants?"

"You're getting real excited about this idea," Tom said. "You sure this isn't revenge for all the times I didn't give you bacon?"

"No, " Scout insisted. "I'm just really happy to be able to help you and this is a really cool new thing." He paused. "I like the idea of being in charge, too."

Tom thought about that for a bit. "I have to admit, I like the idea of not being in charge."

Tom had enough dexterity in his new hands (or were they front paws now?) that he could pull off his too-large shirt and get out of his socks, but he couldn't seem to unbutton his pants. "Little help, Scout?\* he asked.

Scout leaned down, undid the button, and pulled off Tom's pants, and then his underwear. Tom blushed, but didn't try to stop the action. "Oh come on," he protested weakly, "you really need to see me naked?"

"You've seen *me* naked plenty, Tom," Scout replied. "Fair's fair, no?"

Tom sighed. "Guess you have a point." A moment later, he added, "Can you call me something else when I'm like this?" he asked. "Being Tom doesn't feel right, and it'll get confusing when we switch back."

"How about Tommy?" Scout suggested.

"Sure,” Tommy agreed. "Haven't used that nickname since I was a kid. Can't hurt to go back now."

"Be right back," Scout said, then he went off to the kitchen, where he'd stashed something on his way in. When he came back, he was carrying his old collar, worn from years of use. As he held it up near his pet, the size adjusted to match the human's neck, and the writing on the tag changed. Now, it read, "Tommy. If found, call (121) 555-3901".

"Should've seen this coming," Tommy mused. Scout didn't bother to reply. Instead, he quickly buckled the collar around his former owner's neck, making sure it wasn't too tight or too loose. Then, he ran his paw-like hand through what was left of Tom's hair and down his back.

"There's a good boy, Tommy." he said quietly, continuing to pet.

Tom closed his eyes. "Thank you," he said quietly.

"We're gonna have so much fun together\!" Scout continued, his tail wagging and thumping against the couch. "It'll be great\!"

The sound from the TV shifted. "Keep it down," Tom said. "Game's starting."

Scout moved to sit down next to his pet. "Scoot over," he commanded. Tommy didn't move at first. He was quite comfortable where he was.

"*Tommy.*"

The pet human curled up, getting his head into a place from which he might be able to see part of the game (though that was getting harder these days) and leaving some room on the couch for his new master.

The two spent the next few hours on the couch watching the football game, just as they had on so many other weekends. The difference this time was that Tom was the one trying to take up all the space, scrounging for more affection, and resting his head on Scout's leg. Before now, those roles had been reversed. Neither part of this arrangement seemed to mind the change much.

Once the game was over, Tom reached a hand out for the remote out of habit, but only managed to bat at the edge of the table. "What is it?" Scout asked, concerned.

"Want the TV off," Tom said.

Scout took the remote and pressed the power button. Then, setting the remote back down, he stood up. "Off the couch, Tommy\!" he called out.

Tommy rolled over and carefully walked off of the couch, hands first. Once he was on the ground and on "all fours", he shifted around, testing his new limbs. He smiled when he found that he was more stable than he used to be.

The transformed human then tried to stand on his feet. He found that he could do it, but that the position wasn't comfortable enough to stay in for long periods of time. He lowered himself back to the floor, and Scout gave him a gentle scratch behind the ears.

Tommy turned around and cautiously walked over to the kitchen, with Scout following close behind, ready to intervene if anything went wrong. "So, how about that bacon?" Tommy asked once he'd made it near the fridge.

"The genie said what I used to eat was gonna turn into 'human food' if I needed it to," Scout explained as he went to where he used to eat. He filled up the water bowl, then scooped out Tommy's dinner from the big bag in the pantry, whose contents smelled different than what he remembered.

He set the bowls down. Tommy, dinner\!\*

"You serious, Scout?"

"We don't have the budget to cook for two right now, sorry." Scout said.

"Hey, that's my line\!" Tommy protested, barely holding back laughter.

Scout smiled. "And now it's mine."

"I'll give it a try," Tommy said. He walked over to the bowls and gave them a sniff. Using his new tongue and mouth, he tentatively tasted some of the pellets. "Not bad," he declared. "Tastes like meat."

Tommy kept eating and drinking from the bowls Scout used to use as his former dog started on dinner. Scout spent some time looking over what was in the house and decided to make himself a steak and potatoes.

"I was saving that steak for a special occasion," Tommy said during a pause in his eating.

"Pretty sure having a new pet counts," Scout replied. He did quite a good job with the meat between his magically-granted knowledge of how to cook and his better physical state than Tommy.

Tommy, for his part, hung around near Scout during the cooking, but didn't get anything. Once Scout had served himself, Tommy took up the customary position under the table, resting his head on Scout's chair.

Scout didn't take long to relent on giving his former master table food from the table. He'd gotten plenty over the last seven or so years, after all. "Alright, alright," he said. "Tommy, sit."

Tommy sat, lowering his butt to the floor and folding his legs at the knees.

"Clever boy\!" Scout said with exaggerated enthusiasm. "I knew you already could do that one." He cut off a piece of steak and placed it in his hand, then held it down to Tommy. Once he was sure where it was, Tommy grabbed the meat and slowly ate it, savoring the one bite he was going to get if Scout's approach to feeding pets was like his.

"Thanks\!"

"No problem."

Scout finished his food and cleaned everything up. "Nice thing about being a pet," Tommy remarked, "is I don't have to do the dishes."

"Yep," Scout said. "I don't mind, really. I wanted this."

Tommy chuckled. "Silly dog."

"You're only noticing now?"

After the dishes were done, Scout sat down in the living room. "Here, Tommy\!" he called. "Let's see if we can get the crossword."

Tommy hurried over and laid down at Scout's feet. Between the two of them, they got pretty far on the crossword from the morning paper, though there were a few clues they couldn't get. "Thanks for reading that for me," Tom said once they'd called it an evening.

"It's no problem," Scout said, petting Tommy down the side. "I'm not sure I like these, but I know you do."

"Thanks, buddy," Tommy replied. "Or should I be calling you 'Master' now?"

"Not unless you want to."

"I'll try it out some other time, once I've settled in to, well," he waved a front paw around, "all this."

"Speaking of trying things out…" Scout said.

Tommy tilted his head to the side, confused. "Yeah?"

"There's some stuff I want to make sure I can tweak."

"Go ahead," Tommy said. "Let's see what the magic can do."

Scoot focused on his goal, and Tommy's body shifted. "How're your fingers?" the dog asked.

Tommy wiggled his fingers, then went over to grab the remote from the coffee table. He turned the TV on and off, just to make sure he could, then set the remote back down. "They're back," he reported.

Scout brought about another change, and Tommy felt his body shifting and locking into position. "And now?"

Tommy tried the remote again, and found he couldn't even pick it up. "I have paws. Can't do anything with my fingers."

After one more change, Scout said, "Should be back to how they were."

Tommy checked. "Yep. What else can you mess with?"

"A few things. Not much that'll be dangerous, but…"

"But what?"

Scout focused his attention on Tommy's voice and what it could do. "Tommy, speak\!"

Tommy tried to say words, but all he managed were barks. Once he realized what had happened, he looked directly at Scout and whined. Scout quickly changed things back.

"Good to know that works," the dog-person said. "Might need it eventually.'

"Why would you want to do that?" Tommy asked.

"Could help you sink into being a pet if you wanted to relax," Scout said. "Or, if we made some rules, I might need a way to punish you if you were a bad human…"

"Me? Get up to mischief? Why, I'd *never*\!"

"Oh, no. Definitely not\!” Even without Scout knowing a lot about Tom's life, the sarcasm had been really obvious.

"So, what's next on the agenda?" Tommy asked. "A walk?"

Scout looked out the window. "Probably still too hot," he said. "But let's make sure you can use the doggie door. Or is it the human door?"

Tommy took his first steps outside as a pet human–he'd been shrunk enough that he could get through the exit he'd installed for Scout without any trouble. Once he was outside, he called back through the door "You sure no one can recognize me?"

"Quit barking, you stupid mutt\!" That was Ms. Carpenter from next door. "Your door's right there."

"Well, that answers that question," Tommy whispered through the flap. (He didn't want to have Scout's first experience with other people being Ms. Carpenter's silly noise complaints.) He walked all over his backyard several times, gaining a new appreciation for its complexities from his new position closer to the ground.

After he'd spent some time exploring, he noticed he needed to go to the bathroom. *No one's gonna know*, he thought, putting his back leg up against a tree he wasn't too fond of, *and I've wanted to do something like this forever.* Then, he let loose on the ground.

After he'd done his business, Tommy went back into the house. He sat in front of Scout and opened his mouth a few times, blushing as he did so. The question he was trying to ask didn't want to come out.

"What is it, boy?" Scout asked. "Someone fell down the well?"

Tommy laughed, and the joke broke the tension. "No, I wanted to ask, when you decided to…  when you wished to make me your pet, did you know about some of the things I fantasized about?"

"Yeah," Scout admitted. "It's part of why I went with this idea."

"Well, let's go slowly, ok? I don't want to rush into everything."

"So, no walk today?" Scout asked, a touch disappointed.

"No. Becoming a pet and, uh, going outside like that was enough for today. Maybe tomorrow?"

"Ok\!' Scout said. "There's no hurry, though you do need your exercise."

Tommy grunted his annoyance. "Let's get a book on, then turn in."

"Fine by me," Scout said. "And before you ask, you're allowed on the bed… unless you toss around too much."

Tommy directed Scout to where he'd put the audiobook he'd been in the middle of, and was pleased to find that his dog could get the player running without having to fumble and squint. Once the book was playing, he curled up on the rug to listen and receive pets, which he got in spades, along with a few affectionate licks.

Soon enough, it was time to get some sleep. Getting his teeth brushed by Scout was a new experience for Tommy ("Sit. Stay… Open wide." had not been how he'd been expecting to end his day), but he had to admit it was nice to have someone who cared and was doing his best to help with daily living.

Once Scout had gotten into bed, Tommy hopped up to join him. "You make a good owner," he said to Scout, giving his former dog the best approximation to a hug he could manage.

Scout hugged back. "And you're a good pet, Tommy. Thanks for going along with this."

"Good night."

"Good night."

Man and dog snuggled each other as they drifted off to sleep, just like they had the night before, but with roles reversed.
