---
title: Role Reversal
subtitle: Day 1
date: 2024-07-07
other_url: https://archiveofourown.org/works/31992673/chapters/145496839#workskin
---
Tom woke up to the sound of kibble hitting a bowl. *That’s weird,* he thought, *how’s Scout getting fed? What’s that silly little rascal up to?*

He uncurled … wait, uncurled? Was that whole thing where Scout got three wishes and turned him into a … pet human or something  …  not just a weird dream? He felt around his body and — yep, the changes were there like he remembered. Shorter limbs, a more snout-like face with a longer tongue, warmth as if he had fur even though he didn’t (which explained why he was on the blankets and not under them) — it was all there, and so he was probably set up to scamper about on all fours like he remembered from last night. Feeling around his neck, he confirmed that he was wearing a collar, complete with name tag.

“Tommy, breakfast\!”

Tom — no, right, Tommy’s self-examination was interrupted by his dog’s voice coming from the kitchen. The pet hopped off the bed (which was surprisingly easy) and hurried toward the promised food.

He stopped by his seat at the table, which was now occupied by Scout, who was much taller and more human-like than he used to be. He could smell that there’d been bacon cooking, and, when he put his hands (front paws?) on the chair to get a better look at the table, he saw some meat-heavy scrambled eggs.

“Morning, Tommy\!” Scout said, putting down his fork to free up a hand, which he used to pet the head that was now near his lap. He was wearing clothes that Tommy recognized, though the transformative magic that had changed Tommy’s position in the household last night had altered them to fit a dog-person; for one thing, Scout’s pants had a tail hole. “You sleep well?”

“Best sleep I’ve had in a while — I think you fixed up my back with those changes.”

“Could be,” Scout said, idly scritching his human. “Being on two legs all the time’s starting to feel rough.”

“Anyway, you mentioned breakfast?” Tommy asked, inhaling the scent of Scout’s cooking.

“In the bowls by the window, same place you used to put it.”

Tommy whined. “Can’t I have some of yours?”

Scout shook his head and chuckled. “Don’t want to give you bad habits, boy.”

Tommy took his hands off the chair. “Hey, that’s my line\!” he said with a laugh.

“And now it’s mine\!” Scout replied, just like he had last night. “Your breakfast is still in your bowls.”

Tommy slowly trotted over to the dog bowls — his bowls? — and lowered his head to eat. The longer tongue he’d been given during yesterday’s transformation made eating like this surprisingly easy and natural. The food was good, and still tasted like a normal meal while giving off the impression that it was pet food. Maybe being shaped like dog food was part of that.

Tommy paused his eating and looked up at Scout. “You know why this tastes a bit different from last night? It still looks the same.”

Scout shook his head. “No idea.” the dog admitted. “Probably the magic wants to make sure you don’t get bored with your food.”

“Good point.” Tommy agreed before getting back to his breakfast.

Once Tommy had finished eating, he went back to lay down near Scout’s seat — his seat — in the hope that his dog would drop something on the floor.

Scout stood up and took his plate over to the sink once he was done eating. Tommy watched him go, and then “stood” back up once he saw Scout heading away. He trailed behind his dog (*Is that still how I should think of him?*) as he walked to the front door.

“Would you be a good boy and fetch the paper?” Scout asked his former owner.

“I’ll look like a dog and not a naked guy in a collar, right?” Tommy asked.

“Yep\!” Scout said, opening the door for Tommy. “Go get it\!”

Tommy took his time walking down the driveway, enjoying the novel sensations that came from being much more animal-shaped. Crawling around felt quite comfortable thanks to his new form, and walking on concrete (or anything else) like this felt different from both walking or crawling on it as a human. Once he got to where the paper had been tossed, he picked it up carefully with his mouth (plastic still tasted like plastic, he found) and turned back.

When he saw Scout waiting in the doorway watching him, he quickened his walk. He didn’t want to leave Scout too worried about him …or to run up the AC bill.

Once Tommy was back and the door was closed, Scout held out his paw for the paper. Tommy dropped it like he knew he was meant to. He’d been on the opposite end of this morning ritual plenty of times.

Suddenly, Tommy was swarmed by enthusiastic petting. “God, you’re such a cute little thing\! Such an adorable human\! Such a good boy\!”

“Thank you\!” Tommy said as he leaned into the affection.

Scout leaned down and gave Tommy a quick lick on the cheek. “So cute. So good.”

Tommy blushed and smiled.”I can’t say I mind all these compliments. They’re nice.”

Scout straightened up, picked up the paper he’d set down to pet Tommy, and sat down on the couch. “You can come on up,” Scout said, smacking the couch to show Tommy where to go.

“I’ll, uh, be a few minutes,” Tommy said. “Need to, you know, use the doggy door. Wait for me?”

“No problem\!”

Tommy went out into the yard and found a spot to do his business that looked pretty hidden. Sure, no one would know it was him (unless Scout wanted them to, and that definitely would be something they’d talk about first) and he knew his new body didn’t really work with a toilet, but going outside like this still felt embarrassing and transgressive in a way that turned Tommy on. *It’s been years since I even thought of doing something like this, and here I am*, he thought.

Once his business was taken care of (*Note to self: ask Scout about an indoor bathroom setup later, maybe*), Tommy went back in and jumped onto the couch. From where he’d landed, he saw the front page headline and sighed. “Sheriff needs to resign already.” he grumbled.

“Yeah,” Scout agreed. He turned an article to face Tommy. “Looks like they’ll be fixing potholes though.”

“They say that every year.” Tommy commented. “Maybe they’ll stay fixed this time.”

And so the morning passed with Tommy and Scout working their way through the news. Scout sometimes went to pet Tommy or scratch behind his ears or otherwise be affectionate, and Tommy did his best to reciprocate with his paw-hands, or just by laying on or near Scout.

Eventually, Tommy began to doze off, which Scout took as his cue to leave his pet to his nap while he took care of things that he needed — or wanted — to do now that he was the in-charge one in this house.

Tommy didn’t register Scout leaving. Some time later, he was pulled back to awareness  by the sound of Scout opening cabinets and taking stuff out?

*Guess he has to work out where I keep everything in here,* he thought as his dog? … Master? ... worked his way through the kitchen and pantry. He sat up on the couch to peer over it and watch Scout without having to move.

“*Scout*, what are you doing?” Tommy asked, after a short stint of watching. “That’s not where the plates go.”

“It is now.” Scout replied. “I’m reorganizing\!” Tommy could hear Scout’s tail wagging.

“But how am I going to find my stuff? You can’t just rearrange the kitchen\!”

“I’m the one who needs to find stuff in here now  though.” Scout said. “You just need to know where your bowls are, don’t you, boy?”

Tommy hopped off the couch and hurried into the kitchen. “But … but … this is my house, Scout —”

“Settle down now, Tommy, I’m busy.” Scout said, not looking at his pet human.

“I know you’re supposed to be running the show now and you’ve got a point about needing to find stuff but what if you need me to get something or —”

Scout looked at Tommy and willed one of the shifts in his pet’s body he’d tried out last night.

“ — Grrr. Arf\! Woof\! Woof\!” Tommy paused, realized what happened, and whined.

Then, still annoyed at how he was being brushed off, he kept barking objections and getting in Scout's way, forcing the dog-man to dodge around him.

Scout sighed. *Darn it, I need him out of here so I can get back to settling into the den — my house — without dropping something\! How do I … oh, right\!*

“Tommy, crate.” he said.

Tommy looked up at Scout and fell silent, but didn’t move.

“Tommy. *Crate*. Now.” Scout said firmly.

Tommy sighed and went to the crate that used to be Scout’s, crawled in, and laid down. Scout followed closely behind him, and, once he was in the crate, leaned in to give Tommy some scritches. “Good boy\! Goooood Tommy\!  Now just take some time to relax while I finish up over there, that’s a good human.”

Scout closed the crate door and walked off to finish reorganizing in peace.

Tommy lay down in the crate … his crate?  He barked a few times, trying to say “Hey, let me out\!” but that didn’t work. It didn’t when Scout needed a time-out, after all. So, instead of continuing to complain at an absent Scout, he considered the situation. He sprawled out, as best he could on the crate’s comfortable blanket (he was glad he’d done his shopping well). He couldn’t stay too annoyed at what Scout was doing to the kitchen now that he wasn’t seeing it happen, and he realized his dog (maybe he should try Master more, to get in the swing of things?) had a point. As a pet, he didn’t really need to care where the spoons were. And while he could talk to Scout and stop this whole thing … being a pet was nice. He liked it more than being the man of the house. He hadn’t had to try to fix breakfast this morning (which had become a reminder of all the ways his body had started breaking down), for one thing, just eat what got put in his bowl. There was something to be said for not caring too much about human things, letting Scout — Master — handle the annoying parts, which he seemed to like, and just being around for the fun parts like crosswords or going on walks.

At least a few minutes later, though it was hard to tell with no clock, Scout came back and looked Tommy over before unlatching his crate. Tommy felt a small change wash over him as he got his voice back.

“How’s my Tommy doing?” Scout asked. “Feeling better now? Or was that too much, or too harsh?“

Tommy stepped out of the crate. “No, it wasn’t. Thank you … Master. I did need this time out, and I realized I don’t need to care about how you’ve set up our kitchen. It’s not like I’ll be doing any cooking as your pet, which I’m still up for, by the way.”

“There’s a good pet.” Scout said, ruffling Tommy’s remaining hair. “*My* good pet.”

“Your good pet.” Tommy repeated.

Scout pulled something out of a bright pouch he’d clipped to his belt and held it out to Tommy. “Here’s a treat for being such a good boy\!”

Tommy took the treat and hesitantly chewed it. Once he’d tasted it, though, he started slowly savoring it instead. It was, even though he definitely hadn’t bought any such dog treats, sweet.

“That’s tasty, thanks,” Tommy said. Then, remembering he was trying to get more into the pet role, he added, “Master.”

Scout smiled, but needed a moment to compose his thoughts. “I like it when you call me that,” he admitted. “It’s nice to have a packmate to care for.”

“And I’m …” Tommy blushed “... starting to like calling you that. It’s nice to not have to stress about everything and just … obey you.

“Even if it’s hard to really let go of this being my house and me having to do everything.”

“I’ll help with that too, if you want,” Scout said. “Pets need to be trained, don’t they?”

“Yep,” Tommy said, nodding. “Hopefully I won’t need too many time-outs though.”

“That’s up to you, my little Tommy-kins.”

Tommy blushed and was about to get annoyed at the pet name, but then he realized that ridiculous nicknames were part of his new role. “Yes, of course, Master.”

Scout nodded. “Now let’s go play?”

“Sure\!”

“Give me a bit to find something, then. I think you’ve put that in the garage … or the closet … I’ll go look.” Scout wandered off to work out where Tommy had stashed the object he had such fond memories of. Tommy waited patiently for him to return.

“Found it\!” he called from the garage. He came back into view carrying a Frisbee.

“Wanna go play fetch, Tommy? Wanna fetch, boy?” Scout asked in a exaggerated talking-to-pets voice.

Tommy did a little front legs hop. “Sounds fun\!” Tommy hurried out through the doggy door and waited for Scout to come out through the main door to the backyard.

Scout tossed the Frisbee, which didn’t fly very far since he’d never done this before and since he hadn’t picked up the skill from Tommy’s hazy memories of how to do this. “Go fetch, boy\!”

Tommy walked towards where the Frisbee had landed, not yet feeling up to running around the lawn on all fours, even though being closer to the ground helped him better use his remaining eyesight. He picked up the Frisbee and carried it back to Scout — right, Master.

Scout held out a hand. “Drop it.”

Tommy did, and got his hair ruffled as Scout praised him. “Good boy\! Good fetch\!”

Scout tossed the disk again, sending it some distance this time (even though it still ended up on a strep vertical arc down to the ground). “Go fetch\!”

Tommy went to fetch, going slightly faster this time.

The dog threw and his human fetched for a while, with Tommy getting more confident in moving around the lawn as he kept up his fetch attempts. He never managed  to catch the Frisbee before it landed, nor did he try particularly hard to do so.

Eventually, Scout could see Tommy was getting tired, so, after taking the Frisbee, instead of throwing it again he asked, “Had fun?”

“Yeah,” Tommy said. “Nice workout. Beats dragging myself out to the gym, that’s for sure.”

“Let me clean you up a bit. Stay.”

Tommy stayed put, wondering what Scout was up to. *He’d better not be about to hose me down.*

He wasn’t. Scout soon came back with a towel, which he used to wipe off some of the sweat Tommy had built up.

“Anything you want to do now, Tommy?” Scout asked.

“Maybe a nap.” Tommy said. “Then … now that we’ve got two people around again, we can get some of the dust off of the board game collection. Some of that I haven’t played since, well …” Tommy couldn’t finish the sentence.

Scout squatted down and nuzzled Tommy. “I miss her too.”

Scout straightened up. “Mind if I head out to the store while you nap?”

Tommy nodded. “Fine by me.” To diffuse the lingering tension, he added, “I promise I won’t chew on the shoes while you’re out.” without much seriousness.

“I sure hope not,” Scout said, smiling at the joke. “You’re not a puppy, after all.”

 Scout and Tommy went inside. Tommy went to sprawl on the couch and Scout put on some shoes.

“Can you put the radio on before I leave, Master?” Tommy asked. “Classical music’s good to nap to.”

Scout did as he’d been asked. “Remote’s on the table by your head if you want to change it.” he said.

“Thanks,” Tommy said.

Scout walked off. “See you soon, my wonderful Tommy-boy\!”

Tommy heard the car pulling out of the garage as he drifted off into a nap. He had gotten tired out by all that fetch. *Darn shame the new body doesn’t come with younger lungs.*

Around an hour later, Tommy woke back up. The house was quiet, and he couldn’t hear Scout anywhere. “Hello? Scout?” he called, with no answer. Evidently Scout wasn’t back from the shopping yet. *Maybe he’s stuck in traffic.* Tommy thought.

He got back down to the floor and decided that this was a good opportunity to explore the house. It looked a lot different from pet level: each room, and the whole house, seemed bigger. Shelves that he’d been able to easily reach before were now inaccessible, and a few experiments with jumping taught Tommy that he’d have a difficult time getting up on the counters. However, he could reach doorknobs, which he didn’t have trouble turning, since he still had working fingers. “These’ll be a pain if Scout gives me paws again,” he said to himself.

He tested out different places to curl up and found that he still liked the couch the best, and that the big lounge chair was even less comfortable than it had been before. Replacing that thing had been something he’d been meaning to get around to eventually, but he never did. He’d been too caught up in … everything.

Scout’s crate was still a good sleeping spot, but the dog bed by the fire was off in a way he had trouble putting into words. *Maybe I’ll ask Scout to go to the pet store to get me a different one.* he thought.

Once he’d run out of things to explore, Tommy grabbed the radio remote off the table and sprawled out on the couch, enjoying the warm sun coming in through the windows and flicking through radio stations whenever he’d had enough of whatever music they were playing at the moment.

Not too long later, Tommy heard the garage opening and the car pulling in. He hurried to the garage door and stood right in front of it. *Scout’s home\!* he thought, wishing he had a tail to wag.

Scout opened the door and was immediately greeted by his excited pet shouting “Scout\!”.

“Hi, yes, I’m back, missed you too\!” Scout said quickly. “Back up a bit, I need to bring in all the stuff I got.”

Tommy backed off and let Scout bring in the shopping, though he did follow Master around the house as he tried to guess what was in the bags Scout was carrying based on what he could see of them.

“Traffic was terrible.” Scout remarked as he carried the last of his shopping in.

“Glad I don’t have to deal with that anymore.” Tommy agreed.

“Yeah. Especially with your eyes.”

Tommy nodded. “Yep, now I just hang tight while you do the annoying chores.”

“Do let me know if you’re getting bored, though. I don’t want that for you.”

“It’s been good so far,” Tommy said. “But I’d like to keep doing something with the garden. Maybe the tomatoes will happen this year.”

“You’ve got it,” Scout said. “Even if I need to switch you back onto two legs for it.”

“Thanks, buddy.”

Scout started unpacking the shopping, and soon Tommy realized why he’d been gone so long.

“Did you stop by the pet store?” he asked.

“Of course I did … pet.” Scout said. “I got a whole lot of treats and some different toys so I can find out what you like.”

“I hope we can afford all that …”

“It’s not a problem.” Scout declared. “Came with the wishes, so long as I’m taking care of you — or me — the money’ll be there.”

Tommy breathed a sigh of relief. “Good. Can I see what you got … me?”

“Not all at once. I want to stretch out the surprises.” Scout angled his body to hide some of his purchases from Tommy as he put them away, making sure to keep the treats in the high cabinets. It wouldn't do to have Tommy using the thumbs he sometimes still had to get into the rewards, after all.

“I also got some squeaky toys for me,” Scout said. “They didn’t seem to be your thing.”

“Yeah, no, the changes didn’t give me a sudden urge to chase squirrels.” Tommy said.

Despite his best efforts, Tommy didn’t get a good look at the pet store shopping, but he did notice Scout bought more meat than he would have if he’d been shopping. “Making up for all the stuff I never let you taste?” Tommy asked.

“Yep\!”

Once the groceries were put away, Tommy and Scout went to the board games shelf.

After some discussion, they settled on Dominion. Tommy found out that he could still ‘sit’ in a pair of chairs pushed together by curling up and then raising up his front half so he could use his hands.

Scout turned out to be surprisingly good at the game for never having played it before. He won their first match (“beginner’s luck,” Tommy said, “let’s go again”), barely lost the second (“That was really close, you almost won where, one more?”), and convincingly won the third (“Dang, you’re good\!”)

Scout cleaned up the game and then looked at his Tommy. “Down, boy. Off the chairs.”

Tommy didn’t move, but instead turned around to look meaningfully at the cabinet he’d always kept the dog treats in.

“Go on, down\!” Scout encouraged him, bending down and lightly smacking the floor to emphasize his command.

“You did just buy a bunch of treats for, uh, me,” Tommy observed. “It’d be a shame to waste them.”

“I did, and positive reinforcement’s important, they say. I don’t want to have to get the treats out every time, though…”

“Please, Master?” Tommy did his best to look cute as he turned his gaze on Scout.

“Oh, all right …” Scout went to get a treat for Tommy — some sort of long stick — and brought it back, setting it down on the floor beside Tommy’s chairs. “C’mon Tommy. Down\!” He hit the floor again.

Tommy shifted around and then carefully hopped down. Once he was on the floor, he picked up the treat and cautiously bit down. He found that what the treat in front of him had been translated into was something with hints of cherry flavor that he’d need to take his time chewing through with his new teeth. *Makes sense, for a “human treat”.* he thought. *We do like our fruit.*

Tommy was focused enough on the treat that he didn’t notice Scout leaving the room. When he looked up from eating, Scout was definitely not around.

He yawned. “Eh, I’ll let him go do stuff.”  he declared.

Tommy stood up, went into the kitchen to drink from his water bowl, and then hopped on the couch again. He flicked on the radio and, having ended up on a long, slow piano piece, drifted off to sleep, even though he hadn’t been planning on that.

---

Tommy was awoken by slow licks on his face.

“Mmgh,” he grumbled.

“Hey there, sleepyhead,” Scout said, stopping his affectionate licking.

“Hey Scout,,” Tommy said, still waking back up. He rolled over and hopped down from the couch.

“Be right back,” he said, going off to take a drink from his refilled water bowl, which was still a new and fun thing for him, even though he’d done it several times over the last day.

When he got back, Scout had sat down on the couch. Tommy jumped back up to join him and laid his head in Scout’s lap.

“Tried out your computer while you were asleep,” Scout said, giving Tommy a pet. “I learned about podcasts and found some you might like if we run low on books. I also got the leaves out front.”

“I’d kinda wanted to look into those but never got around to it,” Tommy said. “Thanks. Maybe tonight?”

“Yeah,” Scout agreed. “I need to cook dinner first, though.”

“And I’ll hover near you and wait for you to drop something,” Tommy said.

“Of course you would,” Scout said, ruffling Tommy’s hair. Tommy followed Scout to the kitchen as promised.

Tommy was disappointed that Scout prepared a big pot of soup without giving him a little sample. “Had a good day … Scout? Master?” he asked Scout.

“Yep. All this people stuff is interesting, and I’m liking it more than being a pet. You?”

“I’m liking being a pet more than I did having to do all this people stuff, like I said. It’s nice, not having to deal with all the driving and the shopping. And you’re a great friend who’s doing a good job taking care of me … and you’re good company. And a good … owner.”

“Aw, thanks\!” Scout wagged his tail, then went to stir the soup. “I hope I can keep it up.”

“We’ll keep working on this,” Tommy agreed.

The soup simmered away in silence for a few minutes. “Uh, there’s one thing I thought of this morning … Master. It might be good to have an indoor bathroom that works for my new body. For when it’s raining.”

Scout nodded. “I didn’t even think of that\! I forgot you don’t really like the rain. Maybe some of those pads? I’ll get some tomorrow.”

“Worth a try,” Tommy agreed. “We’ve got some time to work that out, it looks like. And can you get a different dog bed while you’re there? Yours — the one we have now — just feels off, somehow.”

“I’ll have to bring you along for bed shopping,” Scout said. “See what you like. But you’ll need to get used to meeting people as a pet first.”

“Right, yeah,” Tommy said. “Might be good to start with introducing me to the new neighbors down the street, eventually.”

The soup was getting close to done when Scout sighed.

“Something wrong?” Tommy asked.

“No, I, just …”

“You’ve said  we’d talk through any problems we had,” Tommy reminded him. “That goes for you too.”

“I … you won’t judge me, right Tom?”

“Of course not, Scout.”

“I, well, I really like it when you call me Master.” Scout admitted. “I like being in charge, I like giving you commands, sometimes. It’s nice to feel … dominant, to have you obey, to …”

Tommy chuckled. “That explains why you were such a stubborn dog, Master,” he said. “But anyway, about you feeling more in charge … we could … yeah, maybe set up some rules for me?”

“Yes,” Scout nodded. “Pets should be well-trained. Do … you have ideas? I mean, I have some, but I’m already admitting to a lot and …”

Tommy flopped down against Scout. “Yeah, it’s hard to admit to this sort of thing. Thanks for saying something, Sc — Master.”

He clapped his hands and quickly planted them back on the floor before he lost his balance. “I’ve got an idea\! How about, unless there’s an emergency or we’re having a serious talk like this, I need to call you Master. It’ll … help me remember I’m a pet and make you feel more like the boss here.”

Scout beamed and wagged his tail excitedly. “That’s a great idea\! Let’s do it\! Such a clever pet you are\!”

“Thank you, Master,” Tommy said, suddenly sheepish as the realization that he’d be following this rule — this rule that *he’d* suggested — from now on struck him. He was broken out of his feelings by the sound of the soup. “Pot’s about to boil over, Master.” he said quickly.

Scout slid the pot off the heat. “That was close\! Good boy\!” He put a spoon into the soup to give it a taste, then used a fork to pull a bit of meat off of one of the chicken legs. He held it down to Tommy. “Have a treat\!”

Tommy ate the bit of chicken straight out of Scout’s paw. “Thank you, Master\!” he said, wishing again he had a tail to wag. Well, he did, deep in a closet, where he’d stashed it after never really getting around to using it, but he’d bring that up … some other day.

Scout tasted the soup. “Yeah, this is done.” he said idly. He ladled soup into the bowl he’d prepared. He put the bowl on the table, then stepped back away, having something important to do before he ate.

He went to the window, picked up Tommy’s food bowl, and poured a big scoop of kibble for his pet. “Tommy, dinner\!” he called out, even though his good boy was right there,  as he set the bowl back down.

Tommy rushed over to his bowl and dug in. When Tommy was done, he moved to lay near Master like he had this morning.

Once Scout had cleared off the table, Tommy looked up. “Hey, uh, so, about what I said last night, could we, maybe, I’d like to, go on a walk.”

Scout looked at Tommy, pointedly not responding.

Tommy looked back in confusion. Then, he remembered the earlier discussion about rules. “Master, can we go on a walk, please?”

“There we go, good pet, so polite\!” Scout praised him. He stood up, pushed his chair in, and went to the door. Tommy followed him.

Scout picked up the leash and harness that used to be his until yesterday afternoon. “Tommy, sit.”

Tommy was a good boy and sat. Scout slid the harness over Tommy’s neck and buckled it around his front legs. He adjusted the straps to fit, making sure the harness was appropriately tight.

He looked at the adorable creature in front of him. “Let’s go, Tommy,” he said, tugging on the leash. As he reached for the door, though, he stopped. “Just to make sure we don’t have any trouble, I’m taking your people words out there.” Tommy felt his voice change again, and quietly barked his assent.

Scout opened the door and Tommy followed him out it, staying by Master’s heels. He wanted to be a good pet on his first walk, after all.

This resolve didn’t last long. He noticed the little flourishes one of the neighbors had put on their mailbox, which he’d noticed when he was up at people level. He stopped to get a closer look at them, admiring the art he’d never noticed before —

There was a tug on his harness. This reminded Tommy that he was on a walk, a pet, taken around the neighborhood by his former dog …

He hurried forward and went past Scout. He didn’t want to be right next to Master while he was feeling turned on by his submission.

Scout didn’t comment on Tommy’s lack of sticking near him. This was perfectly normal for a pet to do, after all.

Tommy took some more opportunities to investigate the neighborhood from a pet’s-eye view. There were a lot of little details and intricacies down there he’d never seen: little flowers, bits of trash, neat rocks under bushes. Tommy kept stopping to check these things out, and needing tugs on his harness (his harness, now, not Scout’s, not Master’s) to remind him to keep going.

Scout picked a route different than what Tommy used when he’d been the one doing the walking, and Tommy had to learn where Master wanted him to go from the sideways tugs on his leash.

Eventually, Scout had led Tommy around all the parts of the neighborhood he usually covered on his walks.

As they got near their home, one of Tommy’s neighbors — someone new he didn’t remember meeting — looked down at Tommy and up at Scout.

“Can I pet your dog?” the middle-aged man asked Scout. “He’s cute\!”

“I know, right?\!” Scout replied. “This is Tommy, he’s friendly, you can pet him\!”

The man held a fist out to Tommy, who, apparently, looked just like a dog to him. Tommy gave it a sniff, not wanting to break the illusion.  He “accepted” the man and walked closer, wanting pets even as he blushed.

The man gave Tommy some tentative pets and then stepped back. “’m Soren,” the man said to Scout.

“Scout,” the former dog replied, shaking Soren’s hand. “I’ve lived three doors down that way for a while now.”

“I moved into this place a few weeks ago.” Soren said. “It's nice.”

Scout looked down at Tommy. “We should talk more,” he said, “but I do need to get going.

“Come on, Tommy.” He pulled Tommy’s leash. The pet obediently followed.

“See you around\!” Soren called after them.

Master and human got home shortly after. Once Scout had led Tommy in, he closed the door, pulled off Tommy’s harness, and waved a paw in front of his face.

“Had fun, boy?” Scout asked Tommy as he took off his shoes.

Tommy didn’t respond, still lost in the hazy simplicity of being a pet on a walk.

“Tommy?” Scout asked again, giving his human a scritch to get his attention.

“Oh, right, words … that was wonderful, Master\! I just lost myself in being a dog and not having anything to think about except what I was seeing and Master and the leash and … it was great\! It’s what I wanted and what I imagined and what I thought I wanted and …” he used his snout to nuzzle Scout’s leg, “thank you so much, Master.”

Scout sat down and wrapped his arms around Tommy to give him a hug. “Thank you,” he said, “for letting me give you what you wanted.”

Tommy couldn’t quite hug back in his dog-like form, but he did his best.

Neither Scout nor Tommy knew how long they’d sat there, but eventually they untangled from each other and stood up.

Scout headed to the living room, thinking about what he’d like to do with the rest of his evening. “You know, Master,” Tommy admitted as Scout walked away, “there were a few times on the walk when I stopped just to feel the leash tugs.”

“Well, I’ll need to train you to heel better once you’re all settled in,” Scout replied, not looking back.

“I’d … I’d like that, Master.”

“And I’d … like doing that. Training you.” Scout admitted. “But not today. It’s been a long day for both of us, and I found this D\&D podcast I want to listen to with you.”

“A what?” Tommy asked as he walked towards the couch, where Scout was already sitting.

Scout looked at Tommy and said nothing.

“A what, Master?” Tommy asked again.

“Some people — I think they’re actors — made their D\&D campaign into a whole thing you can listen to. The bit of it I checked out seemed neat, and I thought you’d like it.”

“Could be nice, Master,” Tommy said, remembering the rules this time. “I’ll see.”

Two episodes (with some breaks) later, Tommy yawned. “Yeah, we should keep going through this tomorrow, Master. That’s fun.

“You always were good at fetching,” he added, teasing.

“And you’re not bad at it yourself. I’ll need to give you more practice, though.”

Tommy barked his agreement.

Scout yawned. “Looks like it’s time for both of us to go sleep.” he said as he stood up and stretched. He looked down at Tommy. “You’re so cute\!” he said, just because.

Tommy yawned again.

“Yep, definitely cute. Alright now, go to bed, boy\!”

Tommy sleepily hopped down from the couch and went to curl up on Master’s bed. Scout walked past him as he went to get ready for sleep, and then tucked himself into bed next to Tommy.

“Y’know,” he mumbled, “I should have you sleep in the crate some nights, like I did back before this, so you’re used to it. But that’s not tonight.”

He pulled an arm out from under the covers to give Tommy a pet down his side. “G’night, boy. Sleep well\!”

Tommy, who’d almost fallen asleep by then, mumbled back “’Night, Master. Love you.”

“Love you too, Tommy.”

And so Master and pet drifted off to sleep together, dreaming of their new life together, quite comfortable with how their roles had reversed.

